The first set of stream operations, I'll review a peak map and flat map, all three are intermediate
operations and you can use as many of these operations as many times as you wish on the stream pipeline.
Remember that operations are lazy and require a terminal operation to execute.
The peak operation performs a provided action on each element as elements are consumed from the resulting
string.
This method exists mainly to support debugging, allowing you to see elements as they fly past a certain
point in a pipeline.
It's method declaration as shown below.
We've got a stream of top tea, Metaldyne peak in as a perimeter 86 consumer with a wild card, lower
bound.
Any lambda expression or method reference past to this operation must meet the requirements of the functional
interface consumers method.
They could see the method name accept takes a parameter of type T with no return type.
So T in this context represents the top of the element on the stream.
In other words, the element on the stream will be the parameter to a method that returns void.
So let's switch over to intelligence.
We need to create a new project, which I've already done, of current stream operations for this section
of the course, then we need a new class because this one element DOT student.
So creating a package here.
Limit student posting the code.
All right, so this class is a very straightforward Pirjo plain out Java object, which by using in
the sample code for this video.
Students have a randomly generated name and it will go to the right A.
We've got an initial idea to assign a name at random in the student I.D..
We've got some getters and setters.
So we need another class here.
We're going to call this one pick examples.
It's going to be using this class.
We've created that.
Go ahead and create that.
So this coat is quite into the main method there you see we're setting up a new instance, pick examples,
and then I'm using the collect, which is the collectors not to list terminal operation.
They'll be discussing the collect operation detail and allow the video.
Suffice to say here that it returns the results of the stream operation as a list.
So you can see that kind 21 is calling a and then I'm creating a list of student limited to five using
a stream to generate operation.
And then I'm printing out the list because I'm demonstrating the peak operation, using the system got
out coal and coal and print method of reference as a parameter to the operation.
On a second stream generated from the first list of student elements of the stream are returned to another
list.
There were printing the first list to confirm that peak has no side effects.
Then we're comparing the two lists and confirming if they are equal.
So let's run this now.
OK, so there's the output.
So you can see here that the peak operation printed each of the student elements and that comparison
of the lists confirmed that the peak operation had no side effect on the elements in the list.
Now, that said, that's not to say that you can't change the data using a peak operation.
Let's have a look at doing that.
Gladys method to pick examples class.
This method adds the name Spice Doe to the student's name.
Let's now exercise this method so pacem code at the bottom of our mind method.
OK, there's the coast to the coast creating a stream from the first list and uses the peak operation
as before, but the method it's passed to the peak operation operation is the method I just added to
pick examples which alters the name of the students.
So you can see the reference to pick examples, coal and coal and change student.
Again, that alters the name of the students.
Let's run this.
Down the bottom of the screen, you can see all the names they have now got space and DOE added to the
end of the name.
So you can see from this that the requirements for a peak operation cannot limit it to operations with
no side effects.
You can also say that this method has changed the data elements referenced by all the lists.
Generally, if you want to transform data on a stream, it's better practice to use a mapping function.
Let's have a look at that.
So the map operation applies a given function to the elements on a stream and returns the result as
another stream.
So I can see the method declaration.
There are an angle brackets, stream of type are a map and then function with two top seven.
We've got it.
A wildcard, lower banti.
We've also got a wildcard.
Upper bound are the function.
Now, any lambda expression or method reference past to this operation must meet the requirements of
the function.
The device functions method, i.e. the apply method parameter of type T returning type are to in this
context represents the type of the element on the stream.
So in other words, the element on the stream will be the parameter to a method that can return a result
of any type.
No relationship between the type of parameter and the type of result is required.
We get back to our code, we need another class here, we're going to call this one map examples.
The right this hour class, this code is very similar to the examples code we looked at earlier.
It contains two methods scrolling past the main method.
First, there's our change student method.
So this differs from the peak examples change student method because I'm updating the past student object,
setting the name and then returning the student object from the method.
This method has the correct signature for a function lambda expression and go back to our main method.
Using the collectors to lift terminal operation again, we're creating a list of students limited to
five using stream generate operation, I'm demonstrating the map operation.
Using the map examples change student method we just talked about using that method reference as a parameter
to the operation on the stream generated from the first list of student elements of the stream are returned
to another list.
Then we we're comparing the two lists, elements in the last line of code from this.
And these our output, you can see that this had basically the same results as peak examples using peak.
The map method is a better option because it's expected that map is transforming data.
With that being said, be very careful to check exam questions using peak to see side effects are being
introduced.
You can use MAP to do almost anything, including transforming data from one data type to another.
Let's create a map of our students for the next example, we need to add a method to this class as the
first.
Except that in port.
Both abstract map and map, this method returns an object of type mapped on entry, which will be able
to collect into a set denoted there are better ways to create a set from a stream.
But I'm just demonstrating transformations here.
So let's play some card at the bottom of our main method to exercise this method, septet input.
So here I am using the collect operation with collectors to set to create a set.
Now I'm going to discuss all the options for collecting an upcoming video.
I'm using the map operation here, though, passing it to the method of reference of the method I just
added.
That's map student.
I submit that we just edit down here.
So here are a stream of student entries into a stream of entry that's key value objects, which includes
the key and the student element is the value.
If you run this.
There's the output, you can see the key values in the set we created.
All right.
So there's three other versions of the map operations.
Let's look at discussing those in the next video.